## Title: Galaxy Interactive Environment

Storing the entitities that describe a genome and its annotation involves modelling and storing thousands of entities that are interrelated in complex ways. Graph databases, a recently emerging form of non-relational (NoSQL) database, are well suited for this task. The COMBAT TB project relies on a Neo4J graph database for storing and querying annotation of Mycobacterium tuberculosis. This data is made available via a web interface (the COMBAT TB Explorer) but can also be explored directly using the Neo4J Shell. We implemented a Galaxy Interactive Environment (GIE) to explore a Neo4J database from within Galaxy and demonstrate its utility for data mining the COMBAT TB annotation database.

Storing the entitities that describe a genome and its annotation involves modelling and storing thousands of entities that are interrelated in complex ways. Graph databases, a recently emerging form of non-relational (NoSQL) database, are seen as a natural fit to the huge network of relationships between these entities. Recently the COMBAT-TB project was started that aims to provide a platform for researchers to analyze and visualize their own _M.tuberculosis_ genome sequencing data (url from lab website that describes this project). This integrated platform relies on Neo4J, a highly scalable graph database,  for storing and querying annotation of _Mycobacterium tuberculosis_.  We have modeled, through the use of the neomodel Object Graph Mapper (OGM), and integrated most publicly available data, made available via a web interface (the COMBAT TB Explorer) but can also be explored directly using the Neo4J Shell through Cypher, a declarative graph query language that allows for expressive and efficient querying of the datastore. 
We implemented a Galaxy Interactive Environment (GIE) to explore a Neo4J database from within Galaxy and demonstrate its utility for data mining the COMBAT TB annotation database.